Updating Docs - Issue #138/Issue #181 (#253)
zmkfirmware/zmk: docs/docs/dev-guide-new-shield.md

};
```

:::note

> For split keyboards, it is preferred to define only the `col-gpios` or `row-gpios` in the common shield .dtsi, depending on the diode-direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For split keyboards, it is preferred to define only the `col-gpios` or `row-gpios` in the common shield .dtsi, depending on the `diode-direction` value.
```

Reviewer: Also, before diving into the specifics of the matrix stuff, can we describe the `.dtsi` file and why we use it, how it is shared common DT settings that gets included into the specific left/right overlay files as a starting point?

> For `col2row` directed boards like the iris, a sample kscan in the .dtsi folder would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For `col2row` directed boards like the iris, a sample kscan in the shared .dtsi file would look like this:
```

		row-gpios
			= <&pro_micro_d 6 (GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH | GPIO_PULL_DOWN)>
			, <&pro_micro_d 7 (GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH | GPIO_PULL_DOWN)>
			, <&pro_micro_d 8 (GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH | GPIO_PULL_DOWN)>
			, <&pro_micro_d 0 (GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH | GPIO_PULL_DOWN)>
			, <&pro_micro_d 4 (GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH | GPIO_PULL_DOWN)>
			;
		
	};
```

The missing `col-gpios` would be defined in your `<boardname>_left.overlay` and `<boardname>_right.overlay` files.
Keep in mind that the mirrored position of the GPIOs means that the `col-gpios` will appear reversed when the .overlay files are compared to one another.
This is exemplified with the iris .overlay files.

```
// iris_left.overlay

#include "iris.dtsi" // Notice that the main dtsi files are included in the overlay.

&kscan0 {
	col-gpios
		= <&pro_micro_a 1 GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH>
		, <&pro_micro_a 0 GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH>
		, <&pro_micro_d 15 GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH>
		, <&pro_micro_d 14 GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH>
		, <&pro_micro_d 16 GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH>
		, <&pro_micro_d 10 GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH>
		;
};
```

```
// iris_right.overlay

#include "iris.dtsi" 

&default_transform { // The matrix transform for this board is 6 columns over because the matrix on the left side is 6 columns wide.

> 	col-offset = <6>;

Reviewer: We should call out the use of the offset stuff explicitly too.
